Another effect which is worth mentioning is the power creation and annihilation effect, which can occur
as an alternative to quantum scattering instead of the photon and electron being scattered.
What occurs in this case is an absorption of the photon by another particle or atomic nucleus and an
immediate release of its energy in the form of material particles.
This is power creation.
Power creation is a physical phenomenon whereby a high energy massless photon is converted into material
particles with a mass.
The pair creation effect was discovered in 1933 by the British physicist Patrick Blacket, this phenomenon
clearly showed that we must conceive of light not only as made of photons, but also that they can transform
these particles of photons into other material particles, completely different material particles like,
for instance, electrons.
There is also the opposite process, namely bear annihilation, whereby two massive particles.
An electron and an anti electron positron are converted into two photons that this matter is converted
into photons, into pure electromagnetic energy and usually high energy gamma rays not visible in for
the human eye per creation or even annihilation are a striking example of Einstein's energy mass equivalence,
which is described by his famous formula, Equal M C squared, where M is the rest mass of of a particle
and which is called also the rest energy and relativity.
The mass of a fast moving, moving object can no longer be handled as the classical rest mass.
But we won't go further into this year.
And again, see the letter C is always the letter for the speed of light.
The energy mass equivalence tells us that every particle atom or any material object with a mass contains
an energy in we may speak in potential form, so to speak, which is given by Einstein's formula.
The fact that there is the speed of light squared in this formula makes the amount of energy contained
in matter really huge.
Only a gram.
Of matter, if converted into kinetic energy, would cause an explosion like that of the bombing of
Hiroshima, for example.
In the case of Gamma Photon.
Power creation, two electrons can material materials if a single photon interacts with matter, say,
a heavy nucleus and convert it into matter.
One of these material, outgoing particles will be the negatively charged electron éminence, while
the other is a positively charged anti electron.
E-Plus also called a positron.
Anti matter in general is made of the same particles with the same mass that is of electrons, protons
and neutrons, etc., but with the opposite electrical charge and also opposite spin, we will learn
later what this means.
This process, however, can only happen if the energy of the incoming photon is sufficiently large
to produce the two electrons, according to Einstein's formula.
If the photons energy is lower than twice the energy of the of the of the two electrons, the process
cannot occur and the photon will not be absorbed, but eventually scattered in a light like with the
quantum effect.
Fortunately, for some reason, that is still not entirely clear.
The universe we live in is made almost only of one type of particle.
Otherwise we would have already evaporated, so to speak, away in a fome universe where particles annihilate
and create themselves continuously and therefore stars, planets.
And of course, life as we know it at least could suddenly not have formed in the first place.
We have listed so far several phenomenon which indicate how energy is absorbed and emitted in a quantized
manner and which therefore led to a crepuscular corpuscular interpretation of light the black body radiation,
the photoelectric effect, the Frankfurt bankcards experiment and the content effect.
Amper creation and annihilation as well can all be viewed in this context.
These represent a sufficient number of observational evidence that justify also the rude and fundamental
meaning of the names quantum physics, quantum mechanics or quantum theory.
So on one side, we saw how light behaves as a wave.
On the other side, electromagnetic radiation behaves as if it is made of particles.
Which of the two points of view are correct?
Now, what is nature trying to tell us here?
This will be the main focus of the coming lecture's.